restructure metrics and server-side sampling content (#5479)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/docs/product/sentry-basics/sampling/index.mdx

---
title: Sampling
sidebar_order: 25
redirect_from:
  - /product/sentry-basics/metrics/
description: "Learn more about the different ways that you can sample the transaction events that you send to Sentry."
---

<Note>

> This feature is in beta and is only available if your organization is participating in its limited release. Features in beta are still in-progress and may have bugs. We recognize the irony. If you’re interested in participating, [join the waitlist](https://sentry.io/for/performance/#updates-signup).

Author: ```suggestion
This feature is available only if you're in the Early Adopter program. Features available to Early Adopters are still in-progress and may have bugs. We recognize the irony. If you’re interested in being an Early Adopter, you can turn your organization’s Early Adopter status on/off in General Settings. This will affect all users in your organization and can be turned back off just as easily.
```

> This feature is in beta and is only available if your organization is participating in its limited release. Features in beta are still in-progress and may have bugs. We recognize the irony. If you’re interested in participating, [join the waitlist](https://sentry.io/for/performance/#updates-signup).

Author: ```suggestion
This feature is available only if you're in the Early Adopter program. Features available to Early Adopters are still in-progress and may have bugs. We recognize the irony. If you’re interested in being an Early Adopter, you can turn your organization’s Early Adopter status on/off in General Settings. This will affect all users in your organization and can be turned back off just as easily.
```

</Note>

When you're using [sentry.io](https://sentry.io), the transaction information that you see is generated by one of two types of events:

- Processed events - All the transaction events that you send to Sentry, based on your client-side sample rate in your SDK.
- Indexed events - A sub-set of your processed transaction events, based on your [server-side sample rate](/product/data-management-settings/server-side-sampling/). Underlies _events-based_ data.

> We call this ability to sample in these different ways _dynamic sampling_. Dynamic sampling is a suite of features that allow you to view more accurate performance metrics based on all the transaction events you send to Sentry (or your _processed events_), while retaining a smaller number of more relevant transaction events that you can explore in full detail (your _indexed events_).

Author: Jeremy suggested this wording, so let's chat with him about it when he's back.

> We call this ability to set sample these in these different ways _dynamic sampling_. Dynamic sampling is a suite of features that allow you to view more accurate performance metrics based on all the transaction events you send to Sentry (or your _processed events_), while retaining a smaller number of more relevant transaction events that you can explore in full detail (your _indexed events_).

Author: ```suggestion
We call this ability to sample in these different ways _dynamic sampling_. Dynamic sampling is a suite of features that allow you to view more accurate performance metrics based on all the transaction events you send to Sentry (or your _processed events_), while retaining a smaller number of more relevant transaction events that you can explore in full detail (your _indexed events_).
```

![Image of a breakdown of event types](metrics-events-subsets.png)

## Client-Side (SDK) Sampling

> _Processed_ transaction events can include all the events that occur in your application or a sub-set of those. The number of these transactions that you send to Sentry is based on your client-side sample rate or the sample rate that you set in the SDK. These transactions represent aggregate data. This is used in areas of the application like **Performance** and **Dashboards**. In [sentry.io](https://sentry.io), you may see the data generated from these transaction events referred to as _metrics_ or _metric-backed_.

Author: ```suggestion
_Processed_ transaction events can include all the events that occur in your application or a sub-set of those. The number of these transactions that you send to Sentry is based on your client-side sample rate or the sample rate that you set in the SDK. These transactions represent aggregate data, which is used in areas of the application like **Performance** and **Dashboards**. In [sentry.io](https://sentry.io), you may see the data generated from these transaction events referred to as _metrics_ or _metric-backed_.
```

> Because these transactions represent aggregate data, Sentry doesn't store the full transaction data. So when you're viewing information in [sentry.io](https://sentry.io) that's based on these events, you can't drill down into the specifics of them.

Author: ```suggestion
Because these transactions represent aggregate data, Sentry doesn't store the full transaction data. So when you're viewing information in [sentry.io](https://sentry.io) that's based on these events, you can't drill down into the specifics of individual events.
```

> Because these transactions represent aggregate data, Sentry doesn't store the full transaction data. So when you're viewing information in [sentry.io](https://sentry.io) that's based on these events, you can't drill down into the specifics of individual events.

Author: ```suggestion
Because these transactions represent aggregate data, Sentry doesn't store the full transaction data. So when you're viewing information in [sentry.io](https://sentry.io) that's based on these transactions, you can't drill down into the specifics of individual transaction events.
```

With this larger set of processed transaction events, we're better able to provide you with more accurate insights into the performance of your application. To increase the accuracy of these insights, increase your client-side sampling rate.

To learn about configuring your client-side sample rate, check out the [SDK-specific documentation](/platform-redirect/?next=/configuration/sampling/).

## Server-Side Sampling

> _Indexed_ transaction events are a sub-set of your processed events, and this sub-set is created based on your server-side sampling settings. These are the transactions that you decide to keep from your processed events that Sentry stores for you. For these events, we store the complete transaction data, so you can drill down into each event for further insights. In [sentry.io](https://sentry.io), you may see the data generated from these transaction events referred to as _transaction data_ or _events-based_.

Author: ```suggestion
_Indexed_ transaction events are a sub-set of your processed events, and this sub-set is created based on your server-side sampling settings. These are the transactions that you decide to keep from your processed events and that Sentry stores for you. For these events, we store the complete transaction data, so you can drill down into each event for further insights. In [sentry.io](https://sentry.io), you may see the data generated from these transaction events referred to as _transaction data_ or _events-based_.
```

> Increase your server-side sampling rate to get more individual transaction events to view and search.

Author: ```suggestion
Increase your server-side sampling rate to get more individual transaction events to view or search and set server-side sampling rules to have more relevant transaction events stored.
```

To learn more about setting server-side sampling rules, check out the full [Server-Side Sampling documentation](/product/data-management-settings/server-side-sampling/).

## How Sentry Samples

> Before understanding how Sentry samples, there are some concepts you need to know:

Author: ```suggestion
Before looking at how Sentry samples in more detail, there are some concepts you need to know:
```

![Visualization of how Sentry samples with an effective sampling configuration](server-side-sampling-a.png)

In the next illustration, we show what would happen if the client-side sample rate was lower than the server-side rate. We again start the process of client-side sampling with a total transaction volume of 4. The client-side sample rate is lower this time, set at 25%, leaving only 1 transaction being sent to Sentry for processing. At this stage, you might be asking, “how can the server-side sample 50% of the total transaction volume when the client has already discarded 75%?”. The answer: it can’t. So even though the server-side sample rate is set to 50% of the total volume, it will only index the 1 transaction it received from the client.

> Ultimately, your server-side sample rate must always be equal or lower than your client-side sample rate.

Author: I don't know the answer to this. I'd say let's merge this and circle back to this question on a separate PR.

---
title: Sampling
sidebar_order: 25
redirect_from:
  - /product/sentry-basics/metrics/
description: "Learn more about the different ways that you can sample the transaction events that you send to Sentry."
---

<Note>

> This feature is in beta and is only available if your organization is participating in its limited release. Features in beta are still in-progress and may have bugs. We recognize the irony. If you’re interested in participating, [join the waitlist](https://sentry.io/for/performance/#updates-signup).

Author: ```suggestion
This feature is in beta and is only available if your organization is participating in its limited release.  Features in beta are still in-progress and may have bugs. We recognize the irony. If you’re interested in participating, [join the waitlist](https://sentry.io/for/performance/#updates-signup).
```

</Note>

When you're using [sentry.io](https://sentry.io), the transaction information that you see is generated by one of two types of events:

> - Processed events - All the events that you send to Sentry, based on your client-side or SDK sample rate. Underlies _metric-backed_ data.

Author: ```suggestion
- Processed events - All the events that you send to Sentry, based on your client-side sample rate in your SDK. 
```

- Indexed events - A sub-set of your processed events, based on your [server-side sample rate](/product/data-management-settings/server-side-sampling/). Underlies _events-based_ data.

We call this ability to set sample these in these different ways _dynamic sampling_. Dynamic sampling is a suite of features that allow you to view accurate and statisically significant performance metrics based on all the events you send to Sentry (or your _processed events_), while retaining a smaller number of more relevant events that you can explore in full detail (your _indexed events_).

![Image of a breakdown of event types](metrics-events-subsets.png)

## Client-Side (SDK) Sampling

> _Processed_ events can include all the events that occur in your application or a sub-set of those. The number of these events that you send to Sentry is based on your client-side sample rate or the sample rate that you set in the SDK. These events represent aggregate data. This is used in areas of the application like **Performance** and **Dashboards**. The larger your set of processed events, the better able we are to provide you with statistically significant insights into the performance of your application. In [sentry.io](https://sentry.io), you may see the data generated from these events referred to as _metrics_ or _metric-backed_.

Author: ```suggestion
_Processed_ events can include all the events that occur in your application or a sub-set of those. The number of these events that you send to Sentry is based on your client-side sample rate or the sample rate that you set in the SDK. These events represent aggregate data. This is used in areas of the application like **Performance** and **Dashboards**.  In [sentry.io](https://sentry.io), you may see the data generated from these events referred to as _metrics_ or _metric-backed_.
```

> Because these events represent aggregate data, Sentry doesn't store the full transaction data. So when you're viewing information in [sentry.io](https://sentry.io) that's based on these events, you can't drill down into the specifics of these events.

Author: ```suggestion
Because these events represent aggregate data, Sentry doesn't store the full transaction data. So when you're viewing information in [sentry.io](https://sentry.io) that's based on these events, you can't drill down into the specifics of individual events.
```

> With this larger set of processed events, we're better able to provide you with statistically significant insights into the performance of your application. To increase the accuracy of these insights, increase your client-side sampling rate.

Author: ```suggestion
With this larger set of processed events, we're better able to provide you with more accurate insights into the performance of your application. To increase the accuracy of these insights, increase your client-side sampling rate.
```

To learn about configuring your client-side sample rate, check out the [SDK-specific documentation](/platform-redirect/?next=/configuration/sampling/).

## Server-Side Sampling

> _Indexed_ events are a sub-set of your processed events, and this sub-set is created based on your dynamic sampling settings. These are the events that you decide to keep from your processed events that Sentry stores for you. For these events, we store the complete transaction data, so you can drill down into each event for further insights. In [sentry.io](https://sentry.io), you may see the data generated from these events referred to as _transaction data_ or _events-based_.

Author: ```suggestion
_Indexed_ events are a sub-set of your processed events, and this sub-set is created based on your server-side sampling settings. These are the events that you decide to keep from your processed events that Sentry stores for you. For these events, we store the complete transaction data, so you can drill down into each event for further insights. In [sentry.io](https://sentry.io), you may see the data generated from these events referred to as _transaction data_ or _events-based_.
```

> Increase your server-side sampling rate to get better sampled or individual events to view and search.

Author: ```suggestion
Increase your server-side sampling rate to get more individual transaction events to view and search.
```
